[Born to Be Alive]
[Episode 9]
Don't move!
What are you doing?
Officer,
it's freezing.
Can we have a blanket?
Bear with it.
Once you're in the detention center,
you'll feel warm enough.
Shao,
go get some sleep.
Don't shout.
Or I'll shoot him.
If you shoot,
you won't get away.
Go.
Take his gun.
Don't move.
I don't want any trouble.
Let us go.
Fine.
Let him go.
Stop!
Stop chasing. Go check on Bai Ju.
Captain!
Bai Ju has reported it to the bureau.
Checkpoints are being set up
on all major routes.
Captain.
Lower your voice.
How is he?
We have to wait for the scans to come out.
Excuse me.
Make way.
Step aside!
What are you doing?
That's too much!
Yes.
That's the situation.
Mom.
-Intracranial hemorrhage is confirmed.
-How is Captain?
We're waiting for the scans.
We need to take a look
and see exactly
how much bleeding there is.
Yes.
I'm waiting for Duojie's family.
On our end,
we'll proceed with standard treatment
and be ready to transfer him at any time.
Okay. Thanks, Liu Sen.
Please arrange for his admission.
Mom, is Captain in danger?
It's hard to say.
We might need to transfer him
to the city-level hospital.
We can't do
a craniotomy here.
Then what are we waiting for?
Let's transfer him now.
Both a transfer and surgery
require family consent.
I'm waiting for Cairen, too.
I'm anxious as well.
I'll go find her.
Don't go.
Where are you going?
I'm going to find her.
County Mayor Lin has
already gone to pick her up.
How did Duojie get hurt?
Tell me again.
It was
total chaos just now.
Director Zhang.
The scan results are in.
Come on, hurry up.
Okay.
This way.
Duojie!
Duojie...
How is he?
After the examination,
we found a small amount
of intracranial bleeding.
We administered mannitol
to reduce the hematoma.
But
whether the bleeding can be absorbed
still needs observation.
What if it gets worse?
If it gets worse,
we must send him
to the city-level hospital immediately.
I've already contacted them.
They can perform surgical drainage.
Then send him there now.
What are you waiting for?
Send him to the city-level hospital
right away!
It takes eight hours
to get to the city.
And the roads are bad,
so bumps are unavoidable.
We can't worry about that now.
Time is everything.
Ms. Cairen.
We need to send him
to the city-level hospital
right now.
No.
Even if he dies,
he must die at home.
He cannot die away from home.
Absolutely not.
Duojie will blame me.
Ms. Cairen,
listen to me.
Listen to me.
You know
our county hospital's
equipment
and surgical capabilities
are limited.
And Duojie has a hematoma
in his brain.
If he stays here
and his condition worsens,
his life will be in danger.
Given the situation,
we need to transfer Duojie
to a city-level hospital.
We
respect
Tibetan customs very much,
but please believe in medicine
and science.
The most important thing right now
is Duojie's
safety.
Director Zhang!
Don't do this.
Stand up first.
Please stand up.
We absolutely cannot let Duojie
die away from home.
I beg you, Director Zhang.
I beg you.
Cairen.
As long as you don't agree,
no one can send him away.
Lin.
Let him stay here.
I will try my best.
Okay.
Ms. Cairen, we will listen to you.
All right.
Duojie is in good physical condition.
If he absorbs the hematoma quickly,
he will recover.
Thank you.
Secretary Chen has gone
to the countryside.
He is on his way back.
If there are any problems,
call me anytime.
Okay.
Director Zhang,
how is Captain?
Can we go in and see him?
Yes,
but not too many at once.
Okay.
I'll go in first.
You guys wait for a bit.
County Mayor Lin.
Come out with me for a moment.
Reporter Shao,
do you think this was appropriate?
You stayed with the Mountain Patrol
and didn't even tell me?
Do you have any idea
how dangerous the Uninhabited Zone is?
Do you even know?
You are a reporter
from the provincial newspaper.
You were acting recklessly.
If something happens to you
like Comrade Duojie,
how will the county explain it?
How will we explain it to your newspaper?
How will we explain it to your parents?
It's one thing not to help,
but can you please not cause trouble?
This is nonsense, kid.
Take care.
Hurry up.
I want to go in and see him.
You are not allowed.
Just one look.
Not even a glance.
It's your fault Captain is hurt.
He.
Isn't that
what you all think in your mind?
That boss
was the murderer who killed Dongzhiba.
It was you who stopped us
and insisted on capturing him alive.
How did you watch him by yourself?
How did he escape?
Explain it to me clearly!
And you still have the nerve to visit him?
Get lost!
Is that
what you all think?
I see.
Good.
Now,
go back to being a police officer.
Get out of the Mountain Patrol!
Are you even men?
Something this big happens,
and everyone blames her alone?
Yes.
The suspect escaped. It's on her.
But was she wrong
to stop you from acting recklessly?
She's a cop!
I haven't dealt with you yet.
Shut up.
Who goes wandering off alone
in the middle of the night?
You're picking on me again.
Stop it.
If Captain hadn't tried to save you,
would he have gotten hurt?
You get lost, too.
What kind of deputy captain are you?
You dare hit my sister?
Try hitting her again!
What kind of deputy captain are you?
Deputy captain, my ass.
Without Duojie,
you can't even think straight.
Thug!
Stop fighting, all of you!
Get out, everyone!
Things were already heated.
Why did you have to interfere?
You were asking for a beating.
Was I wrong?
Whether it's right or wrong,
it's not
for an outsider like you to judge.
Now... now...
Now I'm an outsider?
I just couldn't stand it anyway.
He Qingyuan
was completely unreasonable.
Now is not
the time to reason.
They...
And you—
What does this have to do with you anyway?
Why were you meddling?
Look.
She's been like this since she was little.
She snaps at whoever helps her.
Totally ungrateful.
Hello,
I'm Bai Ji.
Hello.
I'm Shao Yunfei.
Bai Ji.
Go cook.
Cook at this hour?
That's a lot of meat.
Cook it all.
Cook it all?
For them?
You don't know
how they treated Ju.
Cook for them? I won't.
Stop talking nonsense.
Go cook.
I'll help out, Auntie.
Mom.
Can I still stay
in the Mountain Patrol?
Don't think about that now.
Duojie transferred you there.
You can only leave if he says so.
No one else has a say.
But Duojie...
Will he wake up?
Do you know what Duojie means
in Tibetan?
No.
Duojie means
"Vajra."
Something that can't be smashed,
can't be burned—
always strong,
impossible to destroy.
I've known him for a long time.
He's not someone
who goes down that easily.
That doesn't sound like something
a doctor would say.
Right now, I'm your mother.
It's too dry. Is there water?
The water hasn't boiled yet.
Zhacuo.
You were too impulsive just now.
We can't blame this all on Bai Ju.
If not her, then who?
Reporter Shao was right.
You just go around blaming everyone.
When Captain got hurt,
where were we?
Besides,
whether Bai Ju leaves
will be decided
after Captain wakes up.
Will he ever wake up?
A Deputy County Mayor
and County Party Standing Committee member
was seriously wounded by poachers
in the Uninhabited Zone.
A provincial newspaper reporter
traveling with him
was nearly shot dead as well.
I've been on the job
for over twenty years.
I never imagined
there could be a bigger mess
than this.
Chief Shi.
What's your plan?
We've already
set up checkpoints
along the Qinghai–Tibet Highway.
Right now, the bureau
is organizing a team,
rushing to procure supplies,
and preparing
to enter the mountains immediately
to hunt down the perpetrators.
How?
Where?
This is something
we'd like
to submit for your approval.
Our officers aren't very familiar
with the Uninhabited Zone.
We want to pull some people
from the Mountain Patrol
to act as guides.
What do you think?
Agreed.
Okay.
I'll arrange it immediately.
Don't rush.
Finish eating first.
I'm full. I'm full.
Sit down when I tell you to.
The spread of this incident
must be kept to an absolute minimum,
especially
so it doesn't affect
investors'
willingness to invest.
I'll go make things clear
with that reporter.
What worries me more
are those young people
in the Mountain Patrol.
I heard
that at the hospital,
they caused a scene
and even got into a fight.
For now,
having Chief Shi Long
take them into the mountains
helps somewhat.
But what about later?
You mean...
We should disband the Mountain Patrol?
Or find them
something else to do.
In short,
we can't let them sit idle.
The Joint Defense Team
should still be short-handed.
How about
I discuss it
with Captain Sun?
I disagree
with disbanding the Mountain Patrol.
Party Secretary,
what you were worried about earlier
makes sense.
But I think it's too early to say.
And I believe
Duojie will wake up.
How can you...
Let me finish, Party Secretary.
When Duojie was a township head,
I was still working as a technician
at the Qinghai-Tibet Highway
Construction Command.
I was promoted a bit faster than him
simply because
I have a junior college degree.
But when it comes to actual ability
and genuine feeling
for the Tibetan people,
I'm not as good as he is.
During the snow disaster,
Duojie went more than forty hours
without a wink of sleep,
ran all over the pastoral areas,
carried an elderly woman on his back,
and walked more than twenty kilometers
to get her to a hospital.
If that had been me,
I'd have collapsed long ago.
Everything Duojie
has achieved today
comes from his real capability
and the support of the people.
Step by step,
he earned it through hard work.
Party Secretary,
the Mountain Patrol cannot be without him.
And Mazhi County
needs him even more.
I also hope Comrade Duojie
wakes up soon.
But I'm considering
the worst-case scenario.
So we have to hold the Mountain Patrol
together for him.
With such rudimentary equipment
and limited supplies,
Duojie has
led his team to work
out there for so long.
Most people couldn't do it.
Their work is very meaningful.
What Lin said
was very well put.
Party Secretary,
I also agree
with County Mayor Lin.
From now on,
we'll mobilize the county militia
to support their operations.
Even if they can't go into the mountains
with them,
they can at least help share the burden
by manning checkpoints
along the highways.
This is where
the suspect with the severed finger
escaped last time.
Locals who go into the mountains
call it Erdaogou.
We call it Suomaqu.
It'll take about two days
to get there.
Chief.
Bai Ju.
We have enough people.
You don't need to go.
I take responsibility
for the suspect's escape.
I want a chance
to make up for this.
But I also have to think about
how the Mountain Patrol members feel.
Deputy County Mayor Duo
is important here as well.
Take good care of him.
And wait for us to come back.
Come here!
We are the Mountain Patrol!
Everyone, come here!
Come here!
Is anyone in the tent?
Come.
Come, quick.
Is anyone in the tent?
Quick.
Move faster.
Did you see anyone
with fingers missing on his right hand?
He's about my height.
No.
How about you?
None of you has seen him?
Don't hold anything back.
Come on.
One, two, three.
Go that way!
Go!
Go. Go. Go.
I'm sorry.
It's okay, Guo.
Don't be so formal.
People from the Mountain Patrol
have all stayed at our house.
When there are a lot of people,
they sleep on the floor.
I see.
Is your face okay?
My face?
It's fine.
But, Guo.
You really surprised me.
You look gentle,
but you were fierce in a fight.
That was just instinct.
I can't stand seeing them
gang up on people.
You're a good person.
Ju is a good person, too.
Do you like Ju?
We just have a working relationship.
Don't be ridiculous.
I think she likes you, too.
Really?
I didn't notice.
In situations like this,
it's easier to see
when you're not involved.
You definitely wouldn't notice.
Is this your big brother?
Yes, he's Bai Chun.
He's in the army
and is about to be promoted to an officer.
He looks kind.
Of course.
Right.
You can wear his slippers.
Here.
Okay.
They're a little dirty.
It's fine.
I'll wash my feet in a bit anyway.
Let me tell you,
my big brother
treats everyone well,
especially my second sister.
Because she
was adopted,
he paid her extra attention.
Whenever he has something good,
he gives it to her first.
Look at the time.
Why aren't you asleep?
Bai Ji,
stop dragging him
into endless chats.
You're not asleep, either.
Ju went out.
Where is she going this late?
Do you even have to ask?
She went to the hospital to see Duojie.
Here.
Auntie asked me to give it to you.
Thanks.
Was my little brother talking too much
and disturbing your sleep?
Not really.
He is quite interesting.
He...
sees things pretty clearly.
You guys were talking about me, right?
He said a lot
of bad things about me, right?
You're quite self-aware.
He said you're stubborn,
always putting on a tough front,
taking everything
onto yourself.
Even when it's clearly not your fault,
you insist on taking the blame.
The more you do that,
the more people worry.
You're just teasing me.
Bai Ji wouldn't say things like that.
True.
He didn't say it.
I said it.
Bai Ju.
No one can see the future.
This was an accident.
I don't think you did anything wrong.
If they had
really opened fire back then,
in a way,
they'd be no different
from the man
who killed Dongzhiba.
What you did
stopped them from crossing the line.
I know I didn't do anything wrong.
I don't need you to tell me.
Then why are you always up at night?
I just wanted
to keep watch here.
Is that a problem?
Fine.
Well, I can't sleep either.
Mainly because I haven't slept
in a bed for a long time.
I'm not used to it.
Back with the Mountain Patrol,
we were all crammed together,
and it stunk.
Now, your place
reeks of disinfectant.
I...
You didn't even think
to get yourself a thick coat.
You've got a runny nose from the cold.
Alright, stop wiping it.
You don't have it.
It wasn't easy
getting warm,
and you let all the heat out.
Bai Ju.
There's actually something
I've been wanting to discuss
with you properly.
Ever since I've been
with the Mountain Patrol,
I've been observing everyone,
especially you.
I actually paid the most attention to you.
And I've been thinking...
What the Mountain Patrol does
is the work of the Forestry Police.
Many places
have this type of police force.
Why doesn't your county have one?
In our county,
there isn't even a single tree.
Why would we need Forestry Police?
Forestry Police don't just manage forests.
They are responsible
for protecting wildlife
and ecological security,
and they are an armed force
with both criminal investigative
and administrative law-enforcement
authority.
We didn't take good care of you last time.
My apologies.
Not at all.
I just haven't come here enough.
I wasn't acclimated.
Look,
I'm much better this time.
I don't even need oxygen.
We actually have oxygen prepared for you.
But it's better
not to use it.
If you use it too much,
you'll become dependent.
Right.
County Mayor Lin.
Feng showed me
the new part
of your mineral exploration report.
I'm interested in the silver mine
near Gailacuo.
The altitude there
should be over 4,500 meters.
4,600.
But the ore grade is better.
How does the saying go?
Nothing ventured, nothing gained.
You have great courage, Mr. Zhao.
Then, when
our report is finalized
and the development zone plan is set,
your company
can participate in the public tender.
Well...
You can take your time
working on that finalized report.
County Mayor Lin,
could you let our company
start
a pilot project first?
A... a pilot project?
Actually,
this is the experience
we've gained from
other projects.
There's a small place in Hunan
that produces copper.
Our company was the first
to move in.
Back then,
there were no development zones,
no planning of any kind.
People just saw
that our company
was doing well,
so more and more businesses followed.
That's when standardized management
was put in place.
Now,
investment promotion there
is doing quite well.
The annual output value
is over 100 million.
Let me put it this way.
Start with a small-scale project
and create
a successful case first.
That's far more convincing
than ten reports on paper.
But now,
things are different from before.
Besides,
our situation here
is also quite unique.
Doing it this way—
isn't this a bit against regulations?
Well...
I'm only making a suggestion.
Ultimately,
it's up to you to decide,
County Mayor Lin.
How about this?
We'll convene a leadership meeting
to discuss it.
Okay.
The finance department
has allocated
another fifty thousand yuan.
That's great.
Which fund is it?
A designated grant for renovating
the showers at the County Hospital.
[Tianduo Municipal
Finance Bureau Document]
What about the funds
for the disaster-stricken pastoral areas?
It still hasn't been approved.
See? The health department
works much more efficiently.
So, all this 50,000
goes to the County Hospital?
Director Zhang has been applying for it
for a year now.
And this 50,000
was already cut down.
If we cut it any further,
that shower room
definitely won't get built.
Give it all to the hospital.
As for Quduo Township...
Keep applying.
What are you doing?
Mom.
Why do you walk without making a sound?
Are you cold?
You're shivering.
You scared me, that's all.
Did you stay at the hospital
all night again?
Shao Yunfei is so fussy.
He insisted on washing his hair.
Since we'd already heated up
so much water,
I might as well wash up too.
That young man...
he's really tough.
Yeah.
You didn't have to
let him stay at our house.
He's used to pulling all-nighters
to meet deadlines.
His longest stretch
was 48 hours without any sleep.
I mean,
on top of that,
he still has to keep you company
and put up with you.
He's really something.
Most people wouldn't have the patience.
How far have you gotten?
Just started.
I haven't even finished
using the shampoo yet.
Don't play dumb.
What?
What do you mean, "what"?
The way Reporter Shao looks at you
is different from
how he looks at everyone else.
In our Mountain Patrol,
I'm the only woman.
The way he looks at me
compared to Duojie and the others
is definitely different.
But before,
when we were at the hospital,
your Uncle Lin
called him out.
I noticed the way you looked at him
was different, too.
When did I...
Mom.
Quick.
It's in my eyes. Water.
There you go again.
Really. It stings so badly.
Okay, okay.
Close your eyes and lower your head.
You're grown already,
and you're still so clumsy
washing your hair.
I know right now,
you're not in the mood for this,
and don't want to listen to me.
Then don't say it.
But since I saw it,
I have to give you
a reminder.
Reporter Shao
isn't from around here.
He'll have to go back sooner or later.
I get what you mean.
You're just being too sensitive.
How can a mother not be sensitive?
When you were young,
you and Shao
always had to wear your hair the same way.
Otherwise, you'd get into a fight
over a single hair tie.
I had to divide up
the new clothes and hair ties
for you well in advance.
Your younger brother
was always sneaking money from home
to buy snacks.
In middle school,
your sister went behind my back
and dated boys.
How could I not keep an eye on her?
I'm just not sensitive
when it comes to your big brother.
He puts my mind at ease.
He joined the army,
and the army managed him.
Being too sensitive isn't a good thing.
I should be like your dad—
big-hearted,
doing whatever he wanted.
He said
there must be a tree
in front of this house.
Then he just grabbed a sapling
and planted it right in the ground.
Everyone in the county said
trees couldn't grow here.
He said it would survive.
Look,
he said it would survive, and it did.
I should learn from him,
stop interfering,
and let you do whatever you want.
Before, I told Duojie
not to let you go into the mountains,
and it upset you.
I was overstepping.